# buni

To install dependencies:

```bash
bun install
```

To run:

```bash
bun dev
```

## About this app

/src - Regular code, executed by our server
/app - Code that is dynamically parsed and run by Bun
/dist - Where Bun puts the code before running it
/codegen - Stores components that are generated by LLM. Syncs with Fly.io volume

compileReact takes in code as a string, and generates a single file HTML component for it.

## Principles

- Fast: Minimize latency, fast feedback loops rule the world
- Simple: Use clear primitives that are easy to understand, for humans and LLMs
- Debuggable: When something goes wrong, make it easy to see
- Open: Everything is visible, scrapeable, interoperable, forkable

## TODO

### Next big milestones

- [x] Share components
- [x] Store component metadata (in sqlite?)
- Versioning, history
- [x] Show chat history somewhere
- [x] Import other NPM modules?

### Farther out

- Get to bootstrapped
- Pass more context to Claude
  - NPM packages
  - External APIs
  - Docs and other context, ala Cursor
  - Other generated code
  - Image context for Claude?
- Auth for users
  - Implement via AuthJS?
- Figure out streaming?
- Shared global database that Claude can introspect
- Browse through code?
- Mobile view?
- Social: really good database
- API/LLM capabilities

### Quick wins to try

- Suggest changes to the app (eg 1 whimsical, 1 layout, 1 fundamental)
- Export app to single HTML to self-host?

### Misc TODOs

- [x] Set up functional editor page
- [x] For resolving files, maybe overwrite with a plugin?
  - Seems like it would work: https://bun.sh/docs/runtime/plugins#loaders, also https://esbuild.github.io/plugins/#using-plugins
- [x] Try importing a standard React component eg monaco-editor for editor.tsx
- [x] Set up editor to dynamically load, eg /app/counter/editor (or maybe /app/editor/counter)
- [x] Generate code from Claude Sonnet
- [ ] Store code in sqlite db
- [ ] Support async components
- [ ] How should components reference external code?
  - Helper functions defined elsewhere? (Where?)
  - Other libraries? E.g. shadcn/ui
    - How to resolve imports?
    - Bundle via Bun.build()?
      - Bun.build looks set up to bundle from filesystem, but: skipping outdir might work to generate in-memory
      - Essentially: I want to replace Bun's filesystem access with SQL as a synthetic DB
        - Hm, can I actually just virtualize a filesystem for Bun to use...?
        - Or like: just actually use a real filesystem somewhere, /path/to/custom.tsx + imports
          - pros: debuggable, plugs into existing infra
          - Filesystem cons: more complex, syncing seems like a pain? code resolution annoying?
    - Or something like Bun.resolveSync
    - Or I want something like [feeding bun sourcefiles in-memory](https://github.com/oven-sh/bun/issues/5145)
    - Or: Conceptualize each Claude output as mini NPM packages?
      - See https://github.com/wobsoriano/bun-lib-starter for the format of an actual NPM package
  - External API calls?
  - Importing NPM packages:
    - Sketch 1: Mark external imports, rewrite on the fly via plugin
    - Sketch 2: Use virtual modules? https://bun.sh/docs/runtime/plugins#virtual-modules
    - Sketch 3: Just throw in like 10 common deps into this project
    - Sketch 4: Try to hook into bun's default/happy import path for when an import isn't found locally
      - 4.1: Fork bun?
    - Sketch 5: Use https://esm.sh/
      - Though React is a bugbear >.>

## Dev notes

### 2024-07-20 Learnings on hosting

- Fly has Volumes for local persistent storage and LiteFS for distributing SQLite
  - To use the push/pull commands, sometimes need to bring up app by going to https://buni.fly.dev/; otherwise the app gets stopped for some reason?
- Render also has [persistent disks](https://docs.render.com/disks#magic-wormhole)

### 2024-07-22 Devlog

- Build only works the first time through for some reason... https://github.com/oven-sh/bun/issues/11123

### 2024-02-27

Hard won snippets for transpilation:

```
  const transpiler = new Bun.Transpiler({
    loader: 'tsx',
    target: 'browser',
    tsconfig: {
      compilerOptions: {
        // This uses createElement instead of jsxDEV
        jsx: 'react',
      },
    },
  })
  const transpiledCode = transpiler.transformSync(componentCode)
  // Assumes that the first export is the root component
  const { exports } = transpiler.scan(componentCode)
  const rootComponent = exports[0]
```

And building with a custom plugin `buni`:

```
  // Works on first access, but not on reload??
  // Is there some kind of caching thing going on?
  const built = await Bun.build({
    entrypoints: [path],
    outdir: './dist',
    // Reroute eg @/manifold.buni to the url from getRedirect('manifold.buni')
    plugins: [buniPlugin],
  })
```
